Hello everyone! In this lesson, we will create our first C ++ class. We will inherit from the Actor class
- this is the base class of the engine that can be added to the scene. A class can be created in several
ways. In the directory with C ++ classes, right-click and select the new C ++ class.
If the directory is not visible, then go to view options and change the checkbox show C ++ classes.
The next way is to select a new C ++ class through the main menu and you can also configure a hotkey,
if we open editor preferences and search for C ++, then we will filter out a hotkey
called a new C ++ class and in the input field you can enter any combination that is
convenient for you. We close the window. Let's create a class via the main menu. Choosing a new C ++ class.
The popup has opened - this is our helper for creating a class. In the center we see the most commonly
used classes and components from which we can inherit.
On hover, brief information about this class or component
pops up . You can read, study.
You can also open the full list of all classes by clicking on the checkbox on the right show all classes.
This list contains the hierarchy of all classes of the engine. You can trace who is inherited from whom.
We return back. Select the actor class, click the next button.
On the second screen, we need to set the name of our actor.
Let's call our first class BaseGeometryActor.
In the second field, we need to specify the path to the directory where we want the engine to
create our files for us. By default, this is the root of the project - the source folder. We will not change this,
but we will use the additional feature and click on the public button, which is located on the right.
Two additional directories, public and private, will be created. All header
files will be created in the public folder, and all .cpp files will be created in the private folder.
We are ready with you to create the first class. Press the create class button and wait for visual
studio to update the project, compile the files, and editor will load all the dynamic libraries.
This will all be done on the fly, but it will take some time. Depends on the power of your PC.
We opened visual studio, updated the solution, and added the
newly created BaseGeometryActor. We can see this in solution explore,
if you have it closed, then we go to the main menu -> view -> solution explorer.
There are several projects at the root of the solution explorer. The first one is engine - the engine code. The second folder is
games - this is where custom projects go, our GeometrySandbox is here too.
The source folder contains all the code files we are working with.
The private and public folders were also created. The .cpp file went to private, and the header .h to public.
The solution also contains additional files
that we will not consider now. Let's talk about them a little later.
Let's take a closer look at what the engine generated when the actor was created.
Let's go line by line. The first line is the copyright,
some comment about who created this code, or what organization. We will learn how to create
our own copyrights when we get down to our main project for this course.
pragma once is a preprocessor directive that guarantees that during compilation
this source file will be included strictly once. Next, we have #include
coreminimal, this is a header file that defines some basic types, constants,
tools for logging. The next header file actor.h We inherit
publicly from the actor, so we need to specify the header file where actor is declared.
And the last header file BaseGeometryActor.generated.h is the
auto-generated header. The engine generates it for each actor, there is
meta information about the class and it must go the very last in the list of all includes, that is, if we
want to add some additional include, then we must include it before .generated.h
Next is our code class. We see three macros here. The first is UCLASS, the
second is the project name underscore API and generated_body.
We will consider this in more detail at the end of this section, when there is a general idea of ​​the
engine - these three macros and the generated.h header file.At this stage, it is enough to know
that this is a kind of body kit, some markup around the class that allows you to use the
capabilities of the unreal engine, for example, to make this class available in blueprints.
Let's switch to editor. We can already find our class in the content browser.
The Editor knows about the existence of our actor. Let's see where he is. In the content browser on the left,
select the C ++ classes folder, if your folders are not visible, then click on the sandwich button. This
button hides / opens folders in the content browser. If the folder with C ++ classes is
not visible to you, then we go to view options and select show C ++ classes from the menu. Check the checkbox.
We fall down the folder hierarchy and find our actor class. The Editor knows about its existence,
we can drag & drop to throw it onto the stage. It appeared in the world outliner - a tree of all objects
that are on the stage. It is completely empty, it has no representation, no gizmo, like, for example,
the static mesh of the floor, which is on the stage, but we'll fix it all soon.
We go back to the code. Let's take a look at the functions that unreal generated in the body of
our class. The first is a class constructor, this is a classic C ++ constructor in which, for example,
you can initialize a certain variable. The next function is BeginPlay. It
is called once, either when the actor is spawned, or when the game starts, if the actor is on stage.
Next comes the Tick function. This function is called every frame,
it has a delta time parameter - this is the time difference between the current and the previous tick.
These functions are virtual, we override them in our actor
and add specific logic to them, depending on our tasks.
The .cpp file also contains a copyright comment, we include the header file of our actor.
And below are the definitions of our constructor functions, BeginPlay and Tick.
In the constructor, we also see some structure
called PrimaryActorTick. It has a bCanEverTick field - a boolean,
which is set to true by default. This means that our actor's tick will be called every frame.
This variable exists for optimization, sometimes when designing actors, we do not need
this tick function to be called every frame. This variable is useful
under certain conditions . In BeginPlay and Tick, we see the Super keyword - this is
just an alias for the base class name. In classic C ++, we would write like this .. The
unreal meta code allows you to unify this approach and access all the functions of the
base class through this Super keyword.